Adds `swayfmt` README/CONTRIBUTING (#2579)
FuelLabs/sway: sway-fmt-v2/CONTRIBUTING.md

# Contributing to the Sway Language Formatter

Firstly, thank you for taking interest in advancing the Sway language formatter! This guide will walk you through installation and best practices for contributing to this project.

## Installation

In order to see `swayfmt` in action you will need both `swayfmt` and the [`forc-fmt`](../forc-plugins/forc-fmt/) plugin. As previously stated, you can install these via [`fuelup`](https://github.com/FuelLabs/fuelup) which will install the complete Fuel toolchain, or follow the below instructions to install from source.

> **note:** `cargo` is a pre-requisite to this build

Reviewer: prerequisite or pre-requisite? I thought it was the former.

1. move to your preferred directory
2. clone the Sway repo
3. build from manifest and move the compiled result to your `.cargo/bin` folder

```sh
git clone https://github.com/FuelLabs/sway.git
cargo build --manifest-path ~/sway/forc-plugins/forc-fmt/Cargo.toml
mv ~/sway/target/debug/forc-fmt ~/.cargo/bin

> ```

Reviewer 2: When I read the points sequentially I wonder about point 3 and what it means to build some manifest and move some result to the specified directory. I think that should be elaborated by specifically mentioning the files i.e. what the manifest file is and what the result file is.

The subsequent section is a code block containing the steps.

I would prefer the following structure

1. Bullet Point 1

  ```bash
  $ command to move to dir
  ```

2. Bullet point 2

  ```bash
  $ clone command
  ```

etc.

I think this is much clearer to understand than multiple points and then 1 code block containing multiple steps e.g. bullet point 1 is omitted but bullet point 3 contains 2 commands; the last two lines of the block. As a beginner I might not be able to distinguish between the steps therefore separating into the aforemonetioned format makes it easier to see which command is performing which action

### Testing

> Simply run the `forc-fmt` command on the file you want to format:

Reviewer 3: `sway-fmt-v2` is currently used by `forc-fmt-v2` and we are still distributing `forc-fmt` (which uses `sway-fmt`) with `fuelup`. So our users will have `forc-fmt` installed which can create a confusion here. Considering this is the readme for `sway-fmt-v2` we may want to consider changing this to `forc-fmt-v2` until we make the complete transition and replace/remove v1 from distribution.

Author: Since it's getting close to being switched over I've left it like this, but I can add a line that is explicit about that too

> Simply run the `forc-fmt` command on the file you want to format:

Reviewer 2: This is not guarenteed to work because it is dependent upon the location from which the command is executed. I think the doc should outline where the command can be run e.g. can it be run inside the `src` directory, can it be run on the same level as the `src`, what happens if you run it outside of that project? A beginner might not know and I sometimes run the command from an incorrect location and an error pops up telling me that the manifest file cannot be located - which is not a great error.

```sh
forc fmt
```

Be sure that your code compiles before executing the command!

### Contribution Guidelines

**Issues:**

- Please check existing issues before opening a new ticket

> - If a bug you find isn't represented by a current ticket, please provide the following details:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If there is a bug that isn't represented by a ticket please provide the following details:
```

  - `forc-fmt` and `swayfmt` version
  - `rust` and `cargo` version

>   - operating system and version

Reviewer 2: A user may not know how to check the version of any of these tools. Similar to the formatting in a comment above I think this should outline which tool is going to be checked and how to run the corresponding command in order to find the version. Moreover, it should give an example of the output so that the user knows exactly what to copy and paste into the issue because they may copy only some of the information.

It may be helpful to take a look at a visual example of what Sway Apps is doing in terms of its [issue templates](https://github.com/FuelLabs/sway-applications/blob/master/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.yml). If you scroll down you'll see it ask for the version, the command to run and it provides an example output

Author: Gotcha, I was actually using my memory of that to write this, though I should have just referenced it directly

Author: I would like to create a template, though that may end up being tricky since it isn't in its own repo

  - error output, if any
  - the full code snippet the problem originated from
  - the current output after formatting

>   - the desired output after formatting

Reviewer 2: I think it would be beneficial to indicate what the expectation of the output format is. Is this a screen shot or a copy and pasted line from the terminal? Does it contain all of the information and if it's copied then has it been formatted in the issue to look like code rather than malformed tokens with uneven indentation etc.? Similarly, an example, possibly of a screen shot and separately a code block, would be beneficial.

  - optionally, a solution to the problem

> - If a feature you would like to see implemented isn't represented by a current ticket, please provide the following details:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If a feature you would like to see implemented isn't represented by a current ticket please provide the following details:
```

Reviewer 2: cc @simonr0204 :)

  - a detailed description of the feature

>   - a before and after of how the feature would format the code, if implemented

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - an example of what the code looks like before being formatted and what the code would look like after formatting
```

>   - optionally, a solution

Reviewer 2: If a solution is implied to be a change to some code then I think it should be stated because it's not immediately clear to me what a solution could be here

Author: I think that was a leftover from copy pasta

>   - note: please keep in mind, it is not the goal of `swayfmt` to be identically configurable to `rustfmt` and that some requested features may remain unimplemented until a concensus is reached on adding them

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

> **Note**: please keep in mind, it is not the goal of `swayfmt` to be identically configurable to `rustfmt` and that some requested features may remain unimplemented until a consensus is reached on adding them
```

**Pull Requests:**

> - Each pull request should be linked to its corresponding issue with either a closing or reference keyword

Reviewer 2: I think this should point the reader in the direction of how to do that in case they do not know what this means or how to do it. [Here](https://docs.github.com/en/issues/tracking-your-work-with-issues/linking-a-pull-request-to-an-issue) is the link

> - If not enough context is provided by an issue, please request a more detailed explanation or look to `rustfmt` as a difinitive reference

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If not enough context is provided by an issue please request a more detailed explanation or look to `rustfmt` as a definitive reference
```

> - If a change you are making is rather large, or will take ample time to complete please open or convert it to a draft until it is ready for review

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- When taking on a task consider assigning yourself to the issue or dropping a comment so that a contributor can assign you to the task. This prevents from multiple people taking on the same work
- If the issue consists of a large change then perhaps multiple smaller pull requests should be made while referencing the original issue
- Any changes are encouraged to be opened as a draft pull request until they are ready for review. This makes it easier to track the progress of the issue and allows others to communicate their ideas and suggestions as the work is coming in. Once the work is ready for official review then the pull request should be changed from a draft to an open pull request
```

Author: Unfortunately, outside contributors can't assign themselves or be assigned to my knowledge hence why I have it like this. 😓

> - Before committing changes be sure to run `cargo fmt`, `cargo clippy` and `cargo test` to ensure that CI will not fail

Reviewer 2: Perhaps a broader comment about CI should be added here so that they know that all of the CI checks must pass?
